hello welcome to inside Yale athletics
sponsored by Under Armour I'm Noah fins
and throughout the school year I'll be
bringing you interesting stories about
all the team's athletes and coaches
stories you can't get anywhere else and
what better way to open it up that go
inside Yale football on their first game
down
it's amazing I mean especially here
there's a special tradition
along with Yale football they're coming
out that tunnel the drill is plugged in
there's no greater feeling honestly
other experience that I haven't met that
sign before we go out into the tunnel
just changed your complete mentality no
matter what's going on at that point in
time you know as soon as you tap that
board you're going to that tunnel
everything shares justice games on just
put one play right after you
Charlie Charlie
question yeah I was a great great start
for us we you basically drew that out my
girls are like like like practice you
know he came out that the quarterback
you know uncomfortable situation
muffins came to push right in you know
that was there's really looking like
what we think the game will show you is
far as potential defense comes out makes
plays offices cameras
you know the smell of the green grass
and just just seen football seeing guys
with each other just just be back in the
ball it's great great thing about this
team idea it's special because they all
play for each other you know in a month
what the final score is no matter who
were playing next week they always want
to make sure they don't let their
teammates down so the energy is always
good to do that's what they'll have to
ask much of a guys that they're always
would come out and fight for your family
as soon as we got on the field next week
any of these guys have a ton of energy
we're gonna come you know obviously we
came here the season it's a lager
sorry something new this year Yale's
relationship with Under Armour the
sports apparel and equipment company is
partnering with some of the most
prestigious university sports programs
in the country and now Yale is included
having all of its teams outfitted by
Under Armour recently at a party in
Manhattan the company unveiled the
uniforms the football uniforms for three
of its newest additions
elevates our brands to different level
in a different way that some of the
bigger programs do which made this night
a big one for Under Armour and Yael with
the help of ESPN's Hannah Storm Under
Armour announced its newest partner
schools the highlight of the day the big
reveal notre dame wisconsin yeah Under
Armour here we go
yes the new Yale football uniform and I
know what you're thinking it doesn't
look that much different from the old
one which is by design we wanted to
celebrate that tradition and we really
wanted to tap into that and look at the
historical pictures behind the model
here and really be pure and classic with
our approach and so we kept it really
tamed really smart and perfect for the
Ivy League the Under Armour design team
spends months doing campus visits
research interviewing athletic
department staff all to get the right
look for every uniform we actually spend
time with every sport and make sure that
we listen to the needs of the equipment
staffs we listen to the needs of the
athletes we listen to the coaches and
ensuring that like we're making sure
that we deliver on our promise of making
athletes better everything down to the
shoes what they're wearing now the this
that's our speed forum it's called a
spotlight clean that spot likely it is a
is our lightest fastest speak leet we've
ever done and it has a really aggressive
graphic which is really shiny silver
material so we're trying to balance
tradition but also having the ability to
elevate kind of some some sophistication
and swag but what is most important
performance and Under Armour makes a
promise to give all athletes wearing
their logo an athletic advantage
everything that we make has to have
innovation at its core because our
athletes need to be better than the
others when I take that field they have
to have that competitive advantage and
so on this uniform here you can see
there's this texture this is called
armor grit fabric and as uniforms have
gotten smaller and tighter new
deployment has had to have a more
stretch because the smaller they get the
more restrictive they are so so
companies have built in more stretched
this fabric here has zero stretch the
idea is that when you go to grab the
Jersey you can't grab it and that gives
the guys an advantage I'm feel whether
you're aligning you know or your
receiver running down a field so that
technology alone makes this garment
better than anything on the field now
also it's lighter it dries faster and
debris
do the athletes you know they they're
they're really impressed with all of the
gear but all the gears are getting as
well as all the gear that they're gonna
be wearing on the field the
student-athletes are excited the coaches
are excited the staff is excited and now
can't believe it's it's here and you
know can't say enough good things about
the quality of the shoes the quality of
the apparel and you know they're rolling
out the red carpet for everybody within
our department so it's all good how
about trading in that Yale uniform for
one with your country's colors these
past summer Games in Rio continued a
long trend of Yale athletes competing in
the world's largest sports venue the
Olympics through the years over 200 Yale
athletes have competed in the Olympics
eight Bulldogs in these past gains Kate
grace class of 2011 was the only woman
from the US to qualify for the 800 meter
finals in track and field a couple of
former Bulldogs participated in men's
heavy weight crew Tom Dethlefs class of
2012 was an alternate and Charlie Cole
class of 2007 was part of the men's four
that finished seventh overall Ashleigh
bras which class of 2004 was a crew
alternate for Canada Katherine Miller
who was in the class of 2017 represented
Brazil in fencing Yale was well
represented in sailing with Thomas
barrows class of 2010 teaming up with
Joe Morris class of 2012 Stu McNay class
of 2005 also represented Team USA in
sailing we're extremely proud of the
tradition that our athletes have in
continuing to make it to the Olympic
level of competition we are very very
proud of these young people and their
accomplishments traveling abroad has
become a theme for the volleyball team
after finishing their freshman year four
members of the volleyball team decided
to do an intensive course overseas
setting at the very prestigious London
School of Economics
it was a great experience I'm really
happy that we pushed ourselves to do
something that we don't usually do no
it's not every day college athletes
enroll in a summer program at the London
School of Economics
Kate akin had Kate Swanson grave Elias
and Kelly Werth took the advice of
senior captain Torrey Shepard who did it
two years ago I loved it so much I think
I was like forcing it on people so you
have to this program it's so much fun
fun but not without challenges
it's a semesters worth of work crammed
into three weeks while they found time
to work out together this trip wasn't
about volleyball more than anything it
was exposure to a new world and plenty
of culture interesting time to go abroad
like with everything happening over
there but I think I learned first-person
examples of like what was going on in
their world it was a good balance I mean
I think the program it's a it's a
difficult program but at the same time
it really allows you it gives you the
time to travel and really explore London
I think it's super important doing
and abroad they came home closer to one
another which they say translates to
improved chemistry on the court the way
they look at it there was time for
volleyball taking it some culture and
intense studies all consistent with
their mission our team GPA has been
above a three three for the last ten
years in a row and we've won so it's
really encouraging for me as a coach
knowing that my players are getting it
done on the court obviously and then
obviously as well in the classroom
that's going to do it for this week's
installment of the inside Yale athletics
thanks for tuning in and tune in next
week for something new until then we'll
see on campus